Okay, we're gonna start talking
about using web components, and
styling them, and writing them.
And this course is probably gonna
be a little bit different than
every other Frontend Masters
course you've ever taken,
where you open up the command line and
just start blasting away a code.
We're actually gonna start at
a bit of a different level.
We're gonna start with
the less chaotic stuff first,
start with just how do
you use them in HTML?
And what does that look like?
What does that feel like?
How do you find existing web components,
so you don't have to write your own?
Stuff like that, start at a pretty,
I guess, high level.
But then move to the next layer
of how do you style them?
So that's phase two,
cuz there's a few foot guns in there.
So if you start on the JavaScript end,
I find when you start using them and
you're thinking I'm doing really good.
And then you get to the styling part and
you're I am not happy right now.
[LAUGH] So just cuz there is
difference is the shadow DOM's fault.
But then you go the last level for
me is sort of the kinda
chaotic JavaScript realm.
And then we'll spend quite
a bit of our afternoon there,
just kinda planning out the course here.
So that's where it's gonna be.
And we're gonna start with HTML and
kinda finding components here.
And I'll be really real with you.
I've been a little bit frustrated with
the state of modern web development,
if I'm not telling.
You wanna build a webpage, but
you have to install all of God's Earth
into your computer, gigabytes of Node
modules just to build a webpage.
For me that creates a feeling
of I don't wanna be
this nostalgic human, but maybe I am.
Well, back in my day,
I used to dial up into a website.
That's all true, but, [LAUGH] for me,
it's just sort of this ease of use.
I feel like I have to be a computer
scientist just to build a web page first.
And so, well, we can still be that and
do that, [LAUGH] with web components.
I kinda wanna start at a different angle.
What if we could make
interactive websites and
all that cool stuff without
installing that bunch of JavaScript?
This is The Guardian,
it's a newspaper.
Have you seen these things where
it's sort of the photo slider,
where it sort of shows before and after?
This is after the 2011 tsunami in Japan.
Usually they're used for disasters, or
wars, or very tragic things, but for
me they end up being this really evocative
form of storytelling, like, wow,
there was a boat on that house.
[LAUGH] I've never seen that.
That's how high the water got.
[LAUGH] If the boat is on the house,
the water got higher than the house.
These are just really evocative
ways to tell stories for me.
And so it's very interesting to me
when I see these before and afters.
And I'll dig into every pixel,
and kinda see what's all changed.
While I find them super cool,
I never want to code one, literally never.
[LAUGH] You want to code one?
You're talking touch events,
pointer events,
absolute positioning images that
could be whatever size possible.
It's gotta be responsive.
It's gotta work.
I could code this.
It might take me a week, two weeks,
I don't know to fully
tested on all the devices.
And then I roll it out.
And then I'm getting bugs fixes,
bug reports for the next ten weeks, and
stuff like that.
So I don't want to ruin my
life by coding this on my own.
Even though I feel like I could,
I'd rather use somebody else's brain here,
and I can.
So two-up, it's a repo
from Google Chrome.
Google Chrome kinda made this, and
I'll show you later in what
context they kinda made this.
But it basically,
it creates that whole effect of
the boat on the house in
about five lines of code.
And if we kinda zip in here, you have a
two-up element, that's the custom element.
And inside we have a div with an image.
That's your before image.
A div with an image,
that's your after image.
And then a path to the script,
and this is I think coming from,
where did I put it from?
Unpackage, I just yanked
it off of unpackage.
Now, you probably don't
want to add your bank,
you can't just serve files from unpackage.
That's fine, you can install it to your
computer, if you wanna do that, but
what a great way to just
kinda prototype something.
I didn't have to install
all of God's Earth,
I didn't even touch the command line.
And I kinda have this little interactive
experience just from doing nothing,
except writing about five lines of HTML,
and stealing images from The Guardian,
I apologize.
It's for educational purposes.
And then you can style it too.
We can talk about that, but
they offer a way to kinda style it,
and customize it too and
the result is pretty convincing.
And yeah, so
this is literally one of my favorite,
I think we're using it
on our portfolio site.
My designer coworkers were able
to get this up and running,
which is nice, because I don't
have to do much to support it.
[LAUGH] So pretty good and
if the JavaScript failed,
let's say this unpackage goes down,
no, guess what happens?
It's an image on top of an image.
That seems pretty good.
[LAUGH] No one's gonna complain.
IE 11 doesn't support web components
image on top of an image.
Ship it, complete, done, right?
That's all you need to know.
I feel it's pretty good
fallback plan as well.
Here's just one dumb one
I made the other week.
Know how you can see these HTML tables,
well,
maybe I should say this every database
software is, I'll read in a CSV.
Yeah, right, I'll read a CSV.
But in HTML were, no,
you have to write table TD,
TD, TD, TD, TD.
You have to write this
really gnarly syntax.
And to get data out, yeah,
you have to copy each one and
paste it into an actual spreadsheet.
It's not super fun.
So I just made a little thing and
I'm just gonna go to the debug view.
But I made a thing that I can do this and
I can whatever numbers,
I don't know what's a spreadsheet?
[LAUGH] But I can do this, or
maybe I should just do textedit, or
what's the one that said, it doesn't mark?
And then I'm just gonna do a new document.
Here we go.
What's the command ship T to
you to get the actual thing?
But I can just copy that.
And then look, I have a CSV right there.
And all I'm doing is just wrapping
a table with my functionality,
and the JavaScript kinda doesn't exist.
But then I was,
let's take it a step farther and
maybe you could just download the CSV,
and then I get to open it in numbers.
Yeah, look at that, pretty cool.
I don't know, it's a toy, but
it's just something you could do.
And now,
I can just put that on every table I want,
and I don't have to manually build
stuff out over, and over, and over.
Your mileage may vary, but I'm just kinda
showing you, you can basically supply this
functionality and then provide an easier
way for somebody to add superpowers.
They didn't have to like query selector
with JQuery or querySelectorAll and
bind something to something.
You just wrap an element, and
you get some superpowers.
So pretty cool.
And then I guess we could go to if you
wanted to look at some of the code,
but, yeah, copy-table, around a table.
And I'm not accepting bug reports.
I know you want a seven column
vertical and nested tables.
I'm not supporting that quite yet in this
CodePen, but it's just kinda interesting.
So yeah, even where I coded at I'm just
linking lit off of unpackage, that's fine.
And then I have some styles to get
the thing, copy the clipboard.
I'm just doing that and
then I'm spitting out some
SVGs buttons, and
stuff like that, pretty simple,
a component that adds some superpowers.
Here's what I'm passionate about I have
big opinions about podcast players.
I host podcast.
Your podcast player needs to
have the speed changer, right?
1x, 2x, any 2x fans in the crowd?
Yeah, no.
Okay, well, good,
thought we're just only normals.
You have to have a speed changer.
And then the other critical thing for a
podcast player is that 32 seconds rewind.
I heard something interesting.
I would to rewind it 30 seconds and
hear a little bit more,
hear that one phrase again.
And so I made here, I'll kinda go,
let me go embiggen this.
So I made a web component, it looks ugly,
but that's on purpose.
But, [LAUGH] you basically pass it
a native audio element with the controls
attribute.
And you wrap it in podcast player.
And let's look at it, let's say again,
in the JavaScript fails.
That's the native audio element.
I'm not inspired.
I'm not moved to hit Play.
It does have some features now,
like Playback speed that's pretty new one.
It's not doing well inside that I frame
there, but it is something that exists.
So if I can put it in my podcast player,
and
then I can play, pause,
I can jump forward,
I can jump back, I can change the speed.
And then it'll keep getting faster.
You probably can't hear that audio, but
it's gonna speed up, and
just like you'd expect for
a podcast player to do is to mute in
case my kids are trying to talk to me.
And then this rangefinder,
just to find where you're going
in the podcast is pretty cool.
And then there's even some secret stuff
in here that we've kinda baked into,
maybe not this version, but I have
a version of this over on the podcast,
The Shop Talk Show, podcast player.
And this is it fully styled,
we brought some of our own styling to it.
Yeah, you can just steal web components
and add stuff to them, it's pretty easy.
[LAUGH] Didn't take much and
now it's just working.
And then we have this neat feature here,
you can actually time jump in and
jump to a point in the podcast,
further into the podcasts,
just like you can with a YouTube player.
It gives you a timestamp up here.
That's all based on the pod love spec,
thanks to them who helped
me implement all that.
Yeah, so it's kind of you're
adding superpowers to this.
This is ugly, but
you're adding superpowers to this
first some with minimal code.
And again, I kinda I'm a fan
of how this sort of plays out.